the last time I made a video commenting
on the politics and perspectives of
Blair White I know that Blair herself
did stop by this channel and watch the
video she reacted to it on Instagram has
ever called not on YouTube but shout out
to Blair who's shown that at least she
is capable of taking on board criticism
this video is not really intended to
criticize Blair it's not intended to
criticize Blair it's a response to a
recent announcement for why she is at
least publicly leaving politics at least
for the next few years it seems
and while Blair and I do not share any
of the same political goals or
aspirations I think simply put we're not
on the same team there's a great deal in
her video that I can relate to
sympathetically and empathetically it's
needless to say that the differences
between myself and Blair are much more
worthy of discussion than the
similarities but there are similarities
there there are experiences we have in
common in terms of being a kind of
public figure trying to talk about
politics in a legitimate and engaging
and concerned way and then seeing what
the Internet han-soo in return and you
know obviously I'm a fish in a much
smaller pond but you know quite early in
my career on YouTube I became someone
who was known by all of the other fish
in this pond and she obviously had that
same experience that's a large part of
what she's reflecting on that within her
genre she got to that point where she
had met and spoken to all the other
players in the game she was within six
degrees of separation within the other
players in the game and then she starts
looking around and her feelings about
the whole game starts to change in my
terms she starts to figure out that not
everybody is playing by the same rules
and definitely not all the players are
equally sincere so she's obviously had a
bit of a crisis of conscience and she's
also had to look back and in review the
cost-benefit ratio for
situation she's able to say that in her
life coming on the internet in time of
politics has brought many wonderful and
positive things into her life but it's
also brought into her life certain
terrible and negative things and then
there's her rationale for why she's
she's trying to quit or he's trying to
fundamentally change which yarra she's
participating in so I sympathize but I
only sympathized up to a point first
thing I want to say here my regular
viewers have heard me say before but
Blair if you're watching you will not
have heard me say before when you're
looking at your role as a political
leader in the pursuit of positive social
change you have to look back at history
and ask yourself compared to any other
political leader who has suffered less
that's a real question I don't mean it
in a caddie backhanded insulting sort of
way but the types of complaints that
YouTube personalities have if you were
to look back at the life and career of
dr. Martin Luther King jr. whose life
ended in assassination he was shot to
death in case you hadn't heard for his
political views and he certainly
suffered all kinds of harassment and
censorship and repression before that
his life certainly had inconveniences
imposed on him long before he was
publicly executed what Martin Luther
King jr. went through how does that
compare to to what you're going through
and is it or is it not reasonable to
make that comparison in terms of the
level of self discipline you should have
to endure in terms of simply put the
inconveniences the slings and arrows of
public criticism and what-have-you that
you may have to endure um
Gandhi Mohandas Gandhi in India his life
also ended in assassination what did he
go through up to that the end of his
life what
of repression what kind of censure what
kind of you know what kind of public
excoriation and by the way you may not
know this many Westerners don't Gandhi's
sex life really was in the newspapers
and it really was scandalous it was not
for no reason that Gandhi appeared in
the newspapers and was excoriated for
what he was doing in his private sex
life so it's not all politics with a
capital P that goes on in these
situations these people have also
suffered the slings and arrows of a lot
of private criticism and I'm sure that
did hurt him it certainly hurt his image
of himself as a religious leader as well
as a political leader but religious
leaders and political leaders are
subject to criticism for their personal
lives their sex lives whether it's Bill
Clinton or Mohandas Gandhi or any other
example you want to pull out of the out
of the history books so I think this
leads to the next broader topic on
discuss in this video which I have not
talked about in this channel before and
that is the difference esthetic and
moral between conservatives and everyone
who's not conservative so I'm not making
this a contrast between the left and the
right which is a useful distinction we
use a great deal in Western politics I'm
really talking about people who are
pro-establishment
and people who are anti-establishment I
had a conversation with Isaac about one
year ago I think now a significant
length of time ago and Isaac's views
really do change I mean he's still a
young person growing and adopting new
views and reconsidering what he thinks
of all kinds of issues but I remember I
had a conversation with Isaac I think
over a year ago in which he said of
himself that fundamentally politically
he loved and appreciated Canadian
society as it now exists in 2017 and
whenever that conversation happened that
fundamentally he wants it to stay the
same he wants it to endure and persevere
and maintain these same conditions and
assumptions I think for the rest of his
lifetime and in theory for future
generations was what he was saying
and I pointed out to him that he may not
think of himself as conservative but
what he was describing that really is
fundamentally what the word conservative
means that you live in a society and you
want to maintain that status quo that
you are pro-establishment that you
fundamentally approve of and want to
preserve and conserve to use a loaded
verb those conditions that society that
legal system that that political system
so on and so forth
and I I said in reply I wasn't actually
criticizing him for this I was just
pointing out that that is another way to
describe the position that that he just
described of himself
and I said you know I fundamentally do
not feel that way I'm very fundamentally
in a different situation from you in in
the context of Canadian society I am a
dissident I'm a dissident and I'm
anti-establishment and I'm very
fundamentally profoundly unhappy with
the status quo so much so that I'm
willing to endorse political ideas and
policies that may even include an
element of recklessness an element of
experimentation because I'm willing to
risk damaging some of the benefits we
may take for granted in the current
system of current society because I
really do fundamentally wanted to change
I want to challenge it I want to bring
about a status quo that is fundamentally
better in certain ways now you may
notice I've dropped in repeatedly
Canadian society right if Isaac were
living in Saudi Arabia he would be a
dissident he would not be a conservative
he doesn't want Saudi Arabian society to
remain the same obviously this is true
of Blair white also and she points that
out in many of her own videos that if
she were living in basically any of the
Muslim majority societies in the world
whether that's Saudi Arabia or Indonesia
that she would be fundamentally in a
conflict with that with that society
whereas she doesn't feel that way about
Los Angeles apparently she can be a
conservative relative to the political
spectrum and status quo in Los Angeles
but this would not be her situation to
some other call
society now by the same token you know
there are other cultures on earth and
other political systems I feel much more
positively about I actually do feel much
more positively about the political
situation in Taiwan that's a topic for
another video but my point is if I were
living in Taiwan or if I were living in
Greece my position on the political
spectrum in terms of conservatism versus
being anti-establishment being Pro
establishment versus being
anti-establishment being a dissident
versus being a conformist that may
differ fundamentally not because of the
difference in me but because of a
difference in that political context how
I fit into it or how I fail to fit into
it so this brings us back to the curious
case of Blair White and her decision to
drop out of conservative politics I
think that people like Blair do not ask
themselves these questions such as well
why are they suffering this persecution
or these inconveniences of this danger
why are they suffering even if their
suffering is trivial compared to the
life of someone like dr. Martin Luther
King jr. or Mohandas Ghandi precisely
because their political program does not
have clear goals that they are trying to
achieve and many people especially in
politics are goal-oriented creatures so
if you have a clear goal you're trying
to achieve where you say look I'm not
gonna rest and I'm not gonna quit until
homosexuals have certain legal
protections within Saudi Arabia it's a
great example and you said look maybe
this struggle is gonna take 30 years and
maybe it's gonna take 50 years but we
have to achieve this minimum standard of
human rights for homosexuals in Saudi
Arabia and here's how we're gonna do it
and then it's relative to that goal that
you're willing to suffer public
criticism probably legal problems
probably being dragged into court
maybe being denounced in the press maybe
even having threats on your life maybe
your life is gonna end the same way dr.
Martin Luther King Jr's life ends but
you see that goal and then you evaluate
your own kin
in your own effort relative to that goal
I think it's incredibly difficult for
people whose political values their
political platform is fundamentally
conformist and conservative to justify
even a very small amount of suffering
relative to what are just status quo
preserving goals goals that don't sound
like goals at all um Blair White wants
to build a wall so that there will be
fewer immigrants into the United States
I believe this is one of her positions
one of the reasons why she supported
Donald Trump um you know many
conservatives want to balance the budget
and to simultaneously have lower taxes
these are not the kind of goals that
inspire people to be willing to live in
a cave or you know leave the city and
live in the jungle to give up all the
comforts of bourgeois conformist life to
commit themselves to great acts of
heroism or lives of very
self-disciplined activism even if that
activism takes the form of wearing a
suit and tie and spending long hours
with legal documents engaged in complex
democratic processes so I just say
sometimes it's useful to talk about
politics in terms of left versus right
and sometimes it's really quite banal
it's quite useless or quite misleading a
great example being Taiwan another
example being Thailand in many of these
political contexts the meaning of left
and right it becomes very difficult to
sort out who's who in those terms but in
every political context as soon as we
understand what is the establishment
what does it mean to be Pro
establishment what does it mean to be a
conformist or a conservative in support
of that establishment or that economic
elite that benefits from the
establishment we then have a very clear
and very different sense of who is a
dissident and who is not and we all know
the biggest example in terms of size and
right now we all have to struggle with
on planet earth is China China a country
that is communist we're in theory being
pro-establishment and being a conformist
means that you're left-wing but we all
know in that context the concept of left
and right
starts become Hollow and meaningless but
being Pro establishment versus
anti-establishment becomes very
meaningful indeed and the kind of
commitment and the kind of sacrifice
that you Blair White would have to make
to stand up for your principles if you
lived in China would be tremendous
compared to what it is that you today
are coming on the internet to complain
is too dangerous is too dicey is too
difficult to endure and has scared you
out of participating in politics from
the safety of Los Angeles California I
do sympathise I also have suffered
because of my commitment to talking
about politics on YouTube and I'm
probably gonna continue to suffer
they're just gonna be jobs I don't get
or job interview something you know what
I lose out on or what have you because
of this presidency Orange I really do
sympathise I really do empathize but for
me this raises important questions that
in this video I've tried to raise for
Blair herself if she's watching and for
the rest of the audience